Title: The Brittle Templating Library
Description: The Brittle Templating Library is a markdown preprocessor that enables the generation of dynamic content for static sites. It supports inline JS templates and was created in 90 minutes, making it somewhat brittle but functional.
Created at: 2023-06-04
Updated at: 2023-06-06

---

When building this blog, I chose the markdown format for the articles.

So I built a static, static site generator. As in, a tool that reads the source markdown files and spits out the equivalent HTML content.

And it worked.

But then I felt I needed some "dynamic" content too. I wanted some kind of preprocessor for my static site, that would generate the markdown prose that my static site generator would then consume.

So I made Brittle.

Brittle is a markdown preprocessor that supports inline JS templates, like in [ejs](https://ejs.co/).

Brittle was created in 90 minutes. So, I wouldn't be surprised if Brittle is kind of brittle. But it works.

_Also, it uses eval. So only use it with markdown text you trust. I am not responsible for hacked servers, lost data, dead SD cards, thermonuclear war, or you getting fired because the alarm app failed._

## Basic overview of the syntax

Any JavaScript fragment goes between backticks `` sorrounded by brackets [].

```md
\[`if (new Date().getFullYear() === 2023) {`]
The current year is 2023.
\[`} else {`]
The current year is not 2023.
\[`}`]
```

Output (evaluated server-side):

> [`if (new Date().getFullYear() === 2023) {`]
> The current year is 2023.
> [`} else {`]
> The current year is not 2023.
> [`}`]

### Writing dynamic content in the document

If you want to output the _result_ of the given code, an equals sign must be placed before the first backtick.

```md
Random number: \[=`Math.floor(Math.random() * 100000)`]
```

Output (evaluated server-side):

> Random number: [=`Math.floor(Math.random() * 100000)`]

### Having fun

The following list was generated with Brittle:

[`for (let x = 1; x <= 5; x++) {`]
[=`x`]. This is 'a' repeated [=`x`] times: [=`'a'.repeat(x)`] [=`'\n'`]
[`}`]

```md
\[`for (let x = 1; x <= 5; x++) {`]
\[=`x`]. This is 'a' repeated \[=`x`] times: \[=`'a'.repeat(x)`] \[=`'\\n'`]
\[`}`]
```
